Mills College, a women's school in Oakland, California, announced this week that it is exploring being absorbed by Northeastern University, in Boston. Under the plan, the school would become Mills College at Northeastern University and no longer operate as an independent, standalone institution, Mills President Elizabeth Hillmansaid in the announcement. Millstold students earlier this yearthat it would no longer accept new students due to mounting financial difficulties.It's one of several small schools that say the pandemic worsened existing budget woes. Mills officials shocked studentsin Marchwhen theyannounced that it would stop operating as a college and turn into an institute, though they didn't elaborate on what that meant.Students, faculty members and alumnae have since fought the move with steps likeprotests on campusand avote of no-confidencein the administration. The Save Mills College Coalitionaccused the school's governing board of operating in secrecyafter this week's announcement, saying the trusteeshaven't shared any financial information or detailed the reasoning."It may be that this idea is great. It might not," thecoalition wrote in a tweeton Friday, demanding the board act more transparently. Mills declined an interview Friday, and Northeastern University did not respond to an emailed request for an interview from Higher Ed Dive.However, Mills laid out how the plan will affect students and faculty members inan FAQ on its website. The school said it had been in talks with educational institutions to form partnerships that would allow Mills to "preserve its legacy,"andboard members recently authorized the school to pursue formal negotiations with Northeastern. The arrangement would allow the campus to continue awarding degrees under the name Mills College at Northeastern University and offer undergraduate and graduate education.Students would also have their financial aid awards honored. The proposal may alleviate some of Mills' hardships."Northeastern understands the importance of Mills receiving financial support to cover its operating expenses," the college wrote in the FAQ. But the plan would also bring major changes, such as making the campus co-ed. Mills currently accepts only women and nonbinary students into its undergraduate classes, though men may enroll in graduate programs. The two colleges also plan to establish the Mills Institute, which will be home toresearch and advocacy to "advance women's leadership, equity, inclusion, and social justice," accordingtoan announcement from Northeastern.