Saint Augustine’s has been on the precipice of losing its accreditation for over a year. In 2023, the university’s accreditor— theSouthern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges—voted to terminate the university’s accreditation.However, college officials successfully contested that last year through arbitration. Yet in December, SACSCOConce again voted to terminateSaint Augustine’s from its membership, citing issues with the university’s finances and governance.Saint Augustine’sThursday announcement says that it lost its appeal of that decision, but arbitration once again gives the university another shot at retaining its accreditation. Since the December vote, the university has sought to shore up its budget through widespread cuts and new sources of funding. Still, Saint Augustine’s is grappling with steep declines in enrollment, with just 200 students in the 2024-25 academic year,WRAL reported. That’s down from over 1,100 students just two years ago. In Thursday’s announcement, Saint Augustine’s officials announced they had secured up to $70 million, which they described as a bridge loan, “at competitive market rates and terms” in a deal that they expect to close later this month. University officials did not disclose where the $70 million in funding is coming from, citing nondisclosure agreements. The announcement comes after Saint Augustine's failed to get approval from the state attorney general's office to enter a land lease deal with 50 Plus 1 Sports, an athletics development firm. In January, the attorney general’s office said the dealcould put the university’s nonprofit status at risk,arguing that the upfront lease payment of up to $70 million was far too low for Saint Augustine’s103-acre property. The office said the campus had been appraised at over $198 million. Following the decision from the attorney general’s office, the two parties began restructuring the deal to lease less than half of Saint Augustine’s campus to50 Plus 1 Sports,INDY Week reported. Under the new terms — which circumvent the need for the state office's sign-off — the sports development firm would also share some of its revenue from its use of the land with the university. Saint Augustine’s did not mention 50 Plus 1 Sports in Thursday’s announcement. “This funding is a game-changer,” Hadley Evans, vice chair on Saint Augustine’s board, said in Thursday’s announcement. “We now have the financial leverage to protect SAU’s legacy, enhance academic offerings, and create sustainable revenue streams through strategic campus development.” Saint Augustine’s has alsodrastically cut its workforceamid its financial woes. In November, the university said it was cutting over 130 staff and faculty positions to shave $17 million from its budget.