The leaders of Finlandia University announced an ambitious plan in the spring of 2014 to expand the small Upper Peninsula school founded to educate the children of Finnish immigrants. It began with football. The school had spent more than $2 million updating an athletic field acquired from the Hancock Public Schools with lights, artificial turf, bleachers and a scoreboard. It would field a football team for the first time in its history in the fall of 2015. By 2021, the plan was to have seven new teams in all: wrestling, tennis, Nordic skiing, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s volleyball. The expansion of athletics would drive growth in enrollment “by no less than 40 percent by 2021,” said Philip Johnson, then Finlandia’s president, in an executive summary of the plan, and a larger student body would “provide tuition revenue increases able not only to support a growing student athlete population but also across-campus program growth, thereby positively impacting all students.” Except it didn’t happen. Enrollment blipped upward to 536 students in the fall of 2015 and then mostly fell. The Finlandia Lions football team has won five games since its inaugural season, going winless since 2017. None of the other teams got off the ground. And after the graduation ceremonies on May 7,Finlandia will close for good. In a statement released to the campus in March, Michael Nakkula, chair of the Board of Trustees, cited the drop in the number of new high school graduates andan “unbearable debt load.” “We as a board did everything in our power to avoid this conclusion,” Nakkula said in an email. “The closure is immensely painful for all involved.” Finlandia had been on the edge financially for decades. In the summer of 2001, the university was placed on provisional certification by the U.S. Department of Education for failure to meet the department’s standards of financial responsibility. The university has to post a $470,600 letter of credit for its students to get federal financial aid, and it was subject to extra financial scrutiny from the federal government in subsequent years. The school’s audit report for the fiscal year that ended in June of 2021 lists more than $15 million in long-term debt, less than $1 million in cash on hand and $12.2 million in annual revenues. No confidence That summer, with the school still reeling from the effects of the pandemic, the faculty issued a non-confidence vote in Johnson, citing the failure of his plan to increase enrollment, the school’s dire financial situation and “a slashing of faculty positions and course offerings that has been neither strategic nor planned,” according to a letter from the Faculty Council to the Board of Trustees. “The question before us is whether the person who led us into the current crisis is capable of leading us out of it,” the letter said. The faculty thought he wasn’t. Johnson had become president in 2007 after just over a year as the campus minister. He announced four months after the vote that he would be leaving at the end of the 2021-22 academic year. “We always knew that we would have to work very hard to keep things going,” said Hilary Joy Virtanen, a professor of Finnish & Nordic Studies at Finlandia and the third generation of her family to teach there, “always knew that it was our responsibility to be extremely responsible with our resources to create opportunities whenever we could. “We worked really hard,” she said. “We created innovative programs, just even within the weeks leading up to the closure, and we had other programs we were creating in the pipeline when this suddenly was thrust upon us.” But, on top of its longstanding financial difficulties, Finlandia was facing what Robert LeFevre, president of Michigan Independent Colleges & Universities called “a double whammy, because not only do we have fewer and fewer high school graduates every year, but a smaller percentage of those students are choosing to go to college.” Michigan has historically lagged the rest of the country in the share of high school graduates who go on to college, but where that number was once more than 60 percent, it’s now approaching 50 percent, he said, “which is extremely alarming.” Finnish American history Since its founding as Suomi College in 1896, the school has played a key role in preserving the heritage of Finnish immigrants in the Upper Peninsula and Finnish Americans more generally. It’s the home of the Finnish American Reporter, a monthly newspaper. It runs the Finnish American Heritage Center and the Finnish American Folk School. It bills its archives as the largest collection of Finnish American materials in the world. With the university now in receivership, there are ongoing conversations with Finlandia Foundation National, a nonprofit based in California, about how to preserve what foundation President Anne-Mari Paster called “the Smithsonian of Finnish America.” “Suomi College served the community very well and was a real cornerstone of the community and in the region, for that matter, with Finnish immigrants,” said state Rep. Greg Markkanen, who represents the western Upper Peninsula and attended the school for year in the 1980s. Its departure, he said, will be “devastating.” MORE BYMATTHEW MILLER Poll puts McMorrow and Stevens neck and neck with Rogers in U.S. Senate race, El-Sayed trailsMay. 12, 2026, 5:57 p.m. Democrat Jocelyn Benson takes the lead in governor’s race as support for Mike Duggan slipsMay. 12, 2026, 4:20 p.m. Kaitlyn Lundeen came to Finlandia to play basketball and study physical therapy. She’s loved the tight-knit community. And she was shocked when school leaders called students to an assembly in the Hirvonen Building to tell them it would be over and arrangements had been made for them to finish at other schools. She’ll be speaking at graduation. “It’s a parting speech,” she said, “like we’ve made it all the way through together through all the ups and downs…kind of helping everyone close off this chapter and look forward to the new chapter as Finlandia closes.” Matthew Miller has been a reporter and editor in Michigan since 2002. He joined MLive in 2022.  He has won national awards for science coverage and for religion reporting. He can be reached on Signal at...more