Marlboro College has released documents pertaining to the Board of Trustees' decision to seek a merger with Emerson College in Boston. The document release was in response to a 'challenge' issued during a community meeting Dec. 14 on the campus. In that challenge, Will Wootton, class of 1972, an administrator at Marlboro for nearly two decades between 1983 and 2002 and president of Sterling College in Craftsbury between 2006 and 2012, asked that he and others be allowed four days to review the information. '(W)ithin seven days we will deliver to the board a report showing how the college can welcome a new class in September, and begin building for the future,' said Adrian Segar, who taught at Marlboro College for 10 years, during the Dec. 14 meeting. If the group, in its own analysis, reaches the same conclusion as the board, Segar said, it will not deliver the report and will instead acknowledge, as the Board of Trustees stated, 'There is no credible evidence to suggest that Marlboro can make it on its own.' The information released on the college's website includes financial statements from 2015 through 2019 and tax returns from 2013 to 2017. Other information published on the website includes census data pertaining to U.S. birth rates, which provides information on the number of college-aged students in any given year, demonstrating sharp declines in the number of potential students in Marlboro's demographic. The website also includes a link to the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System, a federal system that provides information including data on enrollment, admissions, human resources, finances and net tuition revenue. In addition to that information, the college has posted a link to a letter issued on Thursday by the New England Commission of Higher Education, which accredits colleges and universities in New England. The letter notes the commission's formal 'Notice of Concern' that the college is in danger of not meeting its standards. While this letter doesn't necessarily revoke Marlboro's accreditation, it serves as a reminder that that is a possibility if remedies are not taken. 'Marlboro College continues to face serious challenges with respect to finance and enrollment, as evidenced by the College's inability to substantially increase net tuition revenue and to balance its budget,' the letter reads. Over the past three years, the letter states, student revenue has decreased from \$3.6 million to \$1.7 million. And although the college has an endowment of \$35.7 million, drawing 6.5 percent from the endowment in 2019 and 18 percent in 2020 to keep the college operating is 'unsustainable.' 'The institution's (tuition) discount rate of 67 percent, while lower than the previous year's rate of 81 percent, is also unsustainable and, as candidly noted ... the high discount rate has not been effective in attracting a sufficient number of new students to the College,' states the NECHE letter. The letter noted that a merger with Emerson College is an acceptable remedy to the situation at Marlboro. 'We also concur with the College that 'a successful merger is the only way to address the financial and enrollment concerns' the Commission has identified,' the letter states. 'We are therefore, gratified to learn that Marlboro and Emerson College have formally agreed to a Term Sheet that serves as the foundation for a full merger agreement that the governing boards of both institutions are expected to approve at their respective meetings in Spring 2020.' 'The trustees believe that acting now, before the endowment is exhausted and options become extremely limited, is the most appropriate way to protect the interests of the students, faculty and Marlboro community,' stated Marlboro College Board of Trustees in a letter issued two days after the Dec. 14 meeting. In the event the proposal between the two colleges is not successful, Marlboro College has developed a plan for what is known as 'an ethical closure.' 'The institution is considering two scenarios: a two-year teach out leading to closure at the end of (fiscal year) 2021 and a three-year teach out with closure at the end of FY2022,' notes the NECHE letter. 'Marlboro has also had 'preliminary conversations' with other colleges that would be able to accommodate students unable to complete their educational programs through the proposed teach out. ... (F)ailure on the part of the College to begin teaching out its students in the event the merger with Emerson does not transpire, will lead the Commission to immediately consider stronger public action.' What that public action might be is not mentioned in the letter. In the Board of Trustees letter published following the Dec. 14 meeting, the board noted that a severance package for all staff and administrators who will lose their jobs had been approved. The details of that severance package are not publicly available.